---
post_title: DCOS 1.7
menu_order: 106
layout: page
published: true
---
The release notes provide a list of useful topics and links for Mesosphere DCOS.

# Advanced Capabilities for DCOS Access Control Service

DCOS Access Control Service now allows users to set-up advanced ACLs that enables multiple teams in an organization to use a single Marathon instance where each team can be authorized to their own application development sandbox.




# <a name="dcos"></a>Improved DCOS installation

- Faster automated CLI mode by use of concurrent SSH sessions and fully asynchronous execution
- Improved validation of configuration parameters


# DCOS Networking

- Virtual IPs powered DCOS Distributed Load Balancer. For more information, see the [documentation](/service-discovery/virtual-ip-addresses/).
- Distributed DNS Server to enable highly available DNS deployment for service discovery and service availability.
- Centralized API to report on aggregated metrics for Virtual IPs.
- Monitoring GUI to monitor VIP performance metrics across DCOS Cluster.
- Troubleshooting GUI to analyze to root cause performance & connectivity issues. For more information, see the [documentation](/monitoring-system-health/).




# DCOS Command Line Interface (CLI)



# DCOS Marathon Upgrade




# <a name="mesos"></a>DCOS Mesos Upgrade



# <a name="known-issues"></a>Known Issues and Limitations

*   You cannot use an NFS mount for Exhibitor storage with the automated command line installation method. To use an NFS mount for Exhibitor storage (`exhibitor_storage_backend: shared_filesystem`), you must use the [Manual command line installation method][12].
*   The Service and Agent panels of the DCOS Web Interface won't render over 5,000 tasks. If you have a service or agent that has over 5,000 your browser may experience slowness. In this case you can close said browser tab and reopen the DCOS web interface.
*   See additional known issues at <a href="https://support.mesosphere.com" target="_blank">support.mesosphere.com</a>.

 
 [12]: /concepts/installing/installing-enterprise-edition/manual-installation/