---
UID: 56f98445b7c81
post_title: Installing Enterprise Edition (1.7)
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
published: true
menu_order: 100
page_options_require_authentication: false
page_options_show_link_unauthenticated: false
hide_from_navigation: false
hide_from_related: true
---

DCOS is installed in your environment by using a dynamically generated setup file. This file is generated by using specific parameters that are set during configuration. This installation file contains a Bash install script and a Docker container that is loaded with everything you need to deploy a customized DCOS build.

You can use the automated installer or advanced installer. 

- The automated installer guides you through a basic installation of DCOS and is suitable for demonstrations and POCs. Only a subset of the configuration options are available with the automated installer and you must have SSH access to your entire cluster. 
- The advanced installer supports the full set of DCOS configuration options and is the recommended installation method for integrating with an existing system.

The DCOS installation creates these folders:

-  `/opt/mesosphere`
    
    Contains all the DCOS binaries, libraries, cluster configuration. Do not modify.
-  `/etc/systemd/system/dcos.target.wants`
    
    Contains the systemd services which start the things that make up systemd. These files must be located outside of `/opt/mesosphere` because of systemd limitations.
    
-  `/etc/systemd/system`
    
    Copies of the units in `/etc/systemd/system/dcos.target.wants` must also be located in `/etc/systemd/system` due to a known systemd search path limitation. These units are prefixed with `dcos`.

The DCOS installation process requires a cluster of nodes to install DCOS onto and a single node to run the DCOS installation from.



